# Preface

With this thesis I hope to successfully graduate with the master's degree and therefore to end a journey I started over three years ago. My goal was to become a better programmer by deepening my theoretical knowledge and I am thankful for what I was able to achieve.

I decided to write this thesis with Prof. Dr. Waldmann as my advisor, because I wanted to have a challenge. I wanted to learn something new and this is exactly what I accomplished. I learned the programming language Haskell, which is not that easy if you're absolutly not experienced with functional programming. And I got in touch with server-side web development, which I always avoided due to my own lack of interest for PHP. I'm happy to have build new expertises and I will hopefully apply those in the future.

I want to thank my advisor Prof. Dr. Johannes Waldmann for giving me the chance to do this project but also for his always illuminating courses and his kindness. Without him I might have never programmed real Haskell code. I also want to thank Dr. René Thiemann from the University of Innsbruck, who is the second reviewer of this thesis besides Prof. Waldmann. Most notably, I want to thank my beautiful girlfriend Anne Wiegand for her love and support. I also want to thank my friends and colleagues, especially from PLUSPOL interactive, for the inspiring conversations regarding my thesis: Andreas Kießling, Ulrich Merkel, Thomas Stangneth, Christoph Schreiber and Martin Hentschel, just to name a few. Of course, I want to thank the CEOs of PLUSPOL Jörg Brücker, Stefan Dittmar and Thomas Lange for giving me the chance to make my graduation possible. Finally, I want to thank my sister Dr. Kerstin von der Krone for her guidance in the final state of this paper.
